# I. Compilation of ArmoniK.Api.cpp Client and Server on Linux using Docker

In order to compile the client and server on Linux, we use a Docker image to set up the necessary environment and dependencies. This ensures a consistent and clean environment for compilation.

## Prerequisites

1. Install Docker on your Linux system. Follow the instructions on the [official Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

2. Clone the repository containing the source code and the necessary scripts.

## Compilation Steps for Linux

1. Open a terminal in the root directory of the cloned repository.

2. Run the `compile.sh` script:

```bash
./compile.sh
```

The compile.sh script does the following:

- Sets the image tag for the Docker image.

- Determines the absolute paths of the necessary directories (working, proto, build, and install directories).

- Checks if the Docker image exists. If not, it builds the Docker image using the Dockerfile.ubuntu file.

- Compiles the project source using the Docker image.
Once the compilation is complete, the compiled binaries will be located in the install directory.

Now you have successfully compiled the client and server on Linux using Docker.

## Compiling the Client and Server on Windows with bootstrap-win64.ps1
This guide explains how to compile the Armonik API client and server on Windows using the bootstrap-win64.ps1 script.

## Prerequisites
Before getting started, make sure you have the following tools and packages installed on your machine:
- PowerShell
- Visual Studio 2022
- Git

Before getting started, you will need PowerShell and be inform that the script will install localy in the folder tools/win64 all prerequisites excepting Visual Studio 2022 and CMake plugins :

- Chocolatey package manager
- Grpc 1.54.0 built from source
- CMake
- NASM

## Compilation Steps for windows
Follow these steps to compile the Armonik API client and server:

- From a powershell, go to the folder package/cpp/tools 

```powershell
cd packages\cpp\tools
```

- Run the bootstrap-win64.ps1 script using the command 
```powershell 
.\bootstrap-win64.ps1
```
This will install the required dependencies and compile the Armonik API client and server.

Wait for the script to complete. This may take some time, depending on the speed of your machine and the size of the project.

Once the script has completed, you should see the compiled output in the install directory. From the root folder of repository ArmoniK.API
```powershell
cd packages\cpp\tools\win64
```

## Troubleshooting
If you encounter any issues during the compilation process, try the following troubleshooting steps:

- Make sure you have all the prerequisites installed correctly.
Check that you are running PowerShell as an administrator.
- Verify that the paths to your installation directories and tools are correct in the bootstrap-win64.ps1 script.
- If you encounter an error related to boringssl, remove the patch provided in the bootstrap-win64.ps1 script before running the script.

## Conclusion
Compiling the Armonik API client and server on Windows can be a complex process, but the bootstrap-win64.ps1 script makes it much simpler.

By following the steps outlined in this guide, you should be able to compile the project successfully and start using the Armonik API on Windows.


# II. Compilation of the Worker ArmoniK.Api.cpp Image for Deployment in Armonik Infrastructure

## Compilation of the Worker Image for Deployment in Armonik Infrastructure

The worker image is a Docker image that is built specifically to be deployed in the Armonik infrastructure. This image contains the necessary dependencies and configurations for the worker to function correctly.

## Prerequisites

1. Install Docker on your Linux system. Follow the instructions on the [official Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

2. Clone the repository containing the source code and the necessary scripts.

## Compilation Steps

1. Open a terminal in the root directory of the cloned repository.

2. Run the `build-worker.sh` script:

```bash
./build-worker.sh
```

The build-worker.sh script does the following:

- Sets the image tag for the Docker image.

- Determines the absolute paths of the necessary directories (script, working, and root directories).

- Changes to the root directory where the Protos are located.

- Builds the worker Docker image using the Dockerfile.worker file.

Now you should have the final image 

3. Once the worker image has been built, you can use the following command to list all the Docker images available on your system:

```bash
docker images | grep armonik-api-cpp
```
The worker image should be listed with the specified image tag (e.g., armonik-api-cpp:v0.1).

Now you have successfully compiled the worker image for deployment in the Armonik infrastructure.